- Previously...
- On The Affair...
I found some sort
of shrine at Dad's.
- What did you do with it?
- I threw it out.
Why?
Because I hate looking at her.
Two astronauts meet by chance
on the International Space Station.
They fall desperately in
love. but their love is doomed.
They try to forget each other.
They build completely
new lives with new people.
But. deep down. they
secretly still love each other.
Until one day. they run
into each other again
on the opposite
side of the galaxy.
Because all this time.
they thought they were
moving away from each other.
they were actually in orbit.
I love you.
I don't want your love.
It terrifies me. and it's
caused me nothing but pain.
- We can't afford a wedding. can we?
- Come on. Whitney.
You've been talking about
having a wedding in this house
since before you were in braces.
Okay. I just received the
last part of my advance.
and I can't think of a
better thing to spend it on.
I used to think. when we had no
money and we had all these kids
and we were fighting. I
would look at you sometimes
and I would think. "One
day. this is gonna be worth it.
One day. I'm gonna dance
with him at Whitney's wedding."
I saw the way you look at women.
Like they're prey.
How the fuck did you not
know it was her in the hot tub?!
I would do anything... Anything
to undo what happened!
If I can just give
her a good wedding.
with us all there together.
having fun. then...
She doesn't want you there.
Jesus Christ.
♪ I was screaming
into the canyon ♪
♪ At the moment of my death ♪
♪ The echo I created ♪
♪ Outlasted my last breath ♪
♪ My voice it made
an avalanche ♪
♪ And buried a
man I never knew ♪
♪ And when he died.
his widowed bride ♪
♪ Met your daddy
and they made you ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ I have only one thing to do ♪
♪ And that's be the
wave that I am And then ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean
Sink back into the ocean ♪
♪ Sink back into the o... ♪
♪ Sink back into the ocean ♪
And five. six. seven. eight.
What's the next move?
- Stop.
- Yeah.
You ready?
And pizza arms.
- ♪ I pictured a rainbow... ♪
- Pizzas.
Pi... Like a pizza.
Yeah. Okay. turn.
- Spin. And spin.
- Hey.
Spin. Two. three.
four. Ride the tractor.
- With your right.
- Yep.
- Wait.
- Kick the puppy.
Kick the puppy with
your right foot. Trevor.
- Stacey. really?
- Kick the puppy.
Kick...
Okay. Sorry.
- Sorry. sorry.
- Stop. stop.
Stop.
Okay. let's start
again. Back to one.
Trevor. you kick the
puppy with your right foot.
- "Kick the puppy?"
- Yes.
Dad. what the fuck does
"ride the tractor" mean?
Martin. I've told
you three times.
This. okay? This is
"ride the tractor." okay?
Ride the tractor. Kick
the puppy. All right?
It's easy. Okay?
Come on. everyone.
Your sister wants a flash dance
- for her wedding...
- Flash mob.
A flash mob for her wedding. and
that's what she's gonna get. okay?
So come on.
Let's go again.
Everyone back to one.
Okay. once more with feeling.
And. remember. you're happy!
Your sister's getting
married! So. smile.
Okay. Let's go.
- Hey.
- Oh. hey.
How's it going?
It's going great. It's going
great. It's going great.
Mom. come on. Get in.
I can't. I'm the videographer.
- Show me what you got.
- Yeah. well. it's not... It's not. uh...
It's not perfect
yet. It's not...
- I'll be kind.
- We're still-still developing.
- Just show me.
- Yeah. Dad.
are we doing this or
what? It's fucking freezing.
Yes. Trevor. Let's go. Ready?
Five. six. seven. eight!
♪ I pictured a rainbow ♪
Nice.
♪ You held it in your hands ♪
Sierra. are you ready?
♪ I had flashes ♪
♪ But you saw the plan ♪
- ♪ I wandered out in the world for years ♪
- Okay.
Martin. Trevor. Stacey. go!
♪ While you just
stayed in your room ♪
♪ I saw the crescent ♪
- ♪ You saw the whole of the moon ♪
- And everyone!
♪ The whole of the moon ♪
♪ Mm. you were
there in the turnstiles ♪
♪ With the wind at your heels ♪
♪ You stretched for the stars ♪
♪ And you know how it
feels To reach too high ♪
♪ Too far ♪
♪ Too soon ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
- Hey. Trev. Can I borrow you for a second?
- Can't.
I need your help.
I'm writing my toast.
Trevor. I know you hate me. but
consider this a favor to your sister.
I don't hate you.
It's okay if you do.
I hated my dad. too.
No. No. really. I don't.
I just...
I wish you'd been around more.
Me. too.
Yeah. Good talk.
Hey. how's it going?
Perfect.
I can't believe they're
making me do this.
- Well. you said yes.
- What was I supposed to say?
What the hell do I know
about getting married?
Well. doesn't she have some poems
or something she wants people to read?
Yeah.
So. then they...
say their vows. exchange
rings and then kiss. right?
- How hard could it be?
- She wants me to say something.
Something important.
Well. you like Colin. right?
I mean. of all the
boyfriends she's ever had.
he's definitely my favorite.
What do you like about him?
He's not a dick.
He treats her well.
He's a decent guy.
I mean. honestly. like. it
could have been much worse.
Well. why don't
you just say that?
I mean. not the part
about it being worse. but...
Sure. I mean. she's
getting a good deal out of it.
I'm just not sure
what's in it for him.
What do you mean?
I just don't know why anyone
would want to marry my sister.
- Martin.
- Dad. come on. She's a lot.
- Whitney is a lot.
- Yeah. that's what makes her great.
When I get married. I'm gonna
choose someone much easier.
Yeah. well. you're welcome
to choose whoever you want.
but you may change
your mind in a few years.
Your sister's really
smart and passionate
and believes deeply in things.
And. yeah. she can
be a little dramatic.
but she's gonna keep
his life really interesting.
I get from where
you're sitting. it.
you know. she seems
like a lot of work. but...
I think you realize.
as you get older.
the person you want to
live with is not. is not the one
who's keeps telling you
how wonderful you are.
It's the one who you
just can't stop talking to
'cause you have no idea
what she's gonna say next.
I think Colin got pretty
lucky. too. you know.
You should say that.
I got to go. I'm
really. really busy.
- Yeah. well. good luck.
- You. too.
Colin?
- Hey.
Uh. I was just checking
to see if you're okay.
Do you need anything or...?
They just told me to
get dressed in here. so...
Of course. Yeah. no.
this is the son-in-law suite.
I actually remember shaving in
that bathroom just before my wedding.
Really?
Wow. you use a straight razor.
Yeah. It was my dad's.
Oh. where are your parents?
Are they. are they here yet?
Uh. no. They couldn't
make it. actually.
Oh. why?
Well. they wanted to. of course.
Got them a flight from Belfast
and everything. But. um...
my dad got arrested. so...
What?
Yeah. I don't know
why I just told you that.
Please don't tell Whitney.
I just told her he was sick.
No. no. Of course I won't.
I mean. is-is everything
okay? Um. anything I can do?
- I'm sorry.
- Colin.
I shouldn't have
gotten him a ticket.
I knew he would do this.
Such a waste of fucking money.
What happened? Is he okay?
He is fine. He's just
drunk. He does this.
Especially when
he gets stressed.
And flying stresses him out.
So I should have known.
Colin.
I'm so sorry.
How about your mother?
Is she... Can she make it?
I don't think so. She...
missed her flight.
and it's too complicated for her
to figure out how to get
the ticket reissued. so...
It's fine. I'll just send
her some pictures.
- She'll like that.
- Wait.
Where is she now?
What do you mean?
Well. if I get her a new ticket.
is she. is she near an airport?
I mean... long is the flight?
It's about seven hours.
Okay. so...
What. she can be
here by 10:00 or 11:00?
You want to try it?
You really don't have
to do that. Mr. Solloway.
Look. first of all.
call me Noah.
And. secondly. I'd
really. really like to help.
Why?
Because you're family.
You get a pretty bad
rap in this family. Noah.
Yeah. well. I've done
some things to deserve that.
Also. the Solloway
women are pretty tough.
Good luck with yours.
Here's the thing about the
family you're marrying into.
We're all batshit crazy and we
can be brutal with each other.
But when the shit hits the fan.
we show up.
It's not much. but...
it's not nothing.
Where I come from. it's a lot.
Thank you.
Yeah. Okay.
So. boarding in... 90 minutes?
Great. Okay. can you
send me the confirmation?
Yeah. that's my
e-mail. Thank you.
Perfect. Bye.
What was that about?
Nothing. Wow.
- You look great.
- Thank you.
This is really nice.
Really. really nice.
I think it's time.
I know.
What the...?
Hey!
Hey.
Are you. uh. Helen Butler?
- No.
- Uh. these are for Helen.
- Can you sign?
- Sure.
Here's the note.
- Here you go.
- All right.
- Thanks.
- Have a good day.
It was Victor Hugo. you asshole.
Hey. buddy!
Can you move out of the way?
Oh. fuck.
Hey. Bruce. Bruce. Bruce.
where are you going?
It isn't safe.
What isn't safe?
They're after me.
I have to leave.
- Come on. let's go back...
- Don't touch me. you fucking pig.
Okay. Okay.
It's okay. Bruce.
It's fine. You're safe.
- Come on. let's go back inside.
- Don't you understand?
I can't go back in
there. I don't know them.
I don't know any
of those people.
Well. you-you know me.
Don't you? You know me.
Michael?
Michael. is that you?
Yeah. it's me.
How are you. Bruce? Uh.
it's good to see you again.
- Oh. you made it. You made it.
- Yeah. I made it.
Oh.
They said you were dead. They
told me you weren't coming back.
Well. they were wrong.
Do Mom and Dad know?
No. Not-not yet.
No. I was. uh...
They're waiting for us inside. I-I
thought I'd come and find you first.
Will you come back
and see them with me?
Oh. Michael. I can't
believe it's really you.
It's really you.
Oh. Oh.
My... my little brother. My boy.
Come on. Bruce.
Come on. Let's-let's go
find Mom and Dad. Come on.
You're okay.
Oh. fuck. Here. Bruce.
Bruce. Come here. Quick.
Hide there. Okay? Just hide there.
What are we doing?
Is this a game?
Yeah. it's a game. We
have to be quiet. okay?
Oh. this is a great hiding place.
Mom and Dad will never find us.
No. they won't.
They'll never even
know we were here.
Oh. fuck.
Hello?
Hello.
One second. then.
My ears.
What can I do for you?
Can I get a cup of coffee?
A customer.
Welcome to the end of the world.
You can sit wherever
you like. I'll bring it to you.
Is this your first
time in Montauk?
No. I grew up here. Thanks.
Did you. now?
A local.
That's a rarity around here.
My mom actually worked
here for a bit before I was born.
Where?
Here. This restaurant.
Well. I'll be damned.
Um. can I just get some eggs?
Scrambled?
Coming right up.
Hey.
Do you know where
I can get some gas?
Gas?
For a car.
Not anymore.
These are so tiny.
Mom. this is taking
too long. okay?
No. no. no. I'm almost
done. I'm almost done.
Stop. Stop. Hold still.
- Did everyone make it?
- I think so.
No one canceled last minute.
right? I'm worried they might.
Colin's friends are such flakes. I just...
I don't want there to be any empty seats.
Well. you'd have
to ask your father.
- Why?
- Because he was keeping the guest list.
Mom. I. I asked you to take
care of that. I thought you did.
Yes. I know.
But he sent out the invitations
and it just seemed much simpler.
And. Whitney. does it really
matter? I mean. come on.
It matters to me.
Wha...
- Okay. Seriously? You dropped it?
- I. no... I...
- What the fuck is wrong with you?
- I didn't mean to. it's just that...
It's just that you
turned so quickly.
Jesus. Helen. why
are you even here?
Because I... thought
you might need my help.
Oh. my God. Do not make
this about you right now.
I do not have
time for that today.
Where did you learn to be
so hard on people. Whitney?
Why am I here?
If I bother you that much?
Why didn't you just disinvite
me like you did to your dad?
Optics.
Think about it. It would
have looked terrible.
I do not want to have the
same relationship with you
as I do with my own mother.
But I don't know how
to avoid it right now.
Well. you could try
listening to me for a change.
- That would be a fun start.
- I do.
No. you don't. You listen
for what you want to hear.
And that's not the same thing.
I don't understand
what you mean.
Okay. Right. Ask me a question.
One that you don't think that
you already know the answer to.
Are you in love?
I think so.
- You're not sure?
- No.
Why not?
I don't know. I'm not
obsessed with him.
Uh. it's not like
you and Dad. I...
I don't think about him all the
time. I don't wonder if he's okay.
Sometimes a whole day goes
by and I just forget about him.
And does that worry you?
No. it doesn't worry me.
Mom. I'm not like you.
I don't want my marriage to be
the great adventure of my life.
- Is that what you think I wanted?
- Isn't it?
Peek-a-boo! It's almost
time. Are you ready?
What the hell is
going on in here?
Whitney. for God's
sakes. get your shoes on.
God. your mother is so useless.
I should have known. when I sent
her in here to help you get ready.
that absolutely nothing
would be accomplished.
- Okay. Grandma. look. I'm ready. See?
- Stand over there. so I can see.
What do you think?
I think she looks perfect.
She certainly looks better than you
did at your wedding. That's something.
- Grandma.
- Is that what you're wearing?
Wow. you are really
in rare form today.
Helen. I've got 60
people in the backyard.
including some shifty hooligans
masquerading as musicians.
It's a band. They're
Whitney's friends.
It's 42 degrees outside. your father
has already wandered off twice.
He's currently tied to a chair.
The chef just locked her
key in the catering van
and can't get the croquembouche
out. and the dog seems to be dying.
- You don't have a dog!
- I didn't say I had a dog.
I said there is a
dog on the property
that seems to be perilously
close to its final demise.
How's that for an omen for
my granddaughter's wedding?
- Grandma. shut the fuck up!
- Whit. it's okay.
No! No. it's not okay.
She's a fucking monster.
Yes. I know. but she's our monster.
Okay. so you just go outside.
Take a couple of
Xanax. Have a drink.
Try to have a good time.
Everything is under control.
Whit. you look beautiful.
but even if you didn't. it
doesn't fucking matter.
'cause this is really just
one incredibly expensive day
that has absolutely no influence or
augury or bearing on the rest of your life.
- Are you ready?
- I'm ready.
What's that?
It's. um. Whitney's "band."
Oh. God. let's do this.
No. you first. daughter.
Gotcha.
My lady.
- Oh. Whit. you look amazing.
- Thank you. honey.
You. too.
Thank you. Stacey.
these are beautiful.
I'm so happy you're
all my children.
Okay. Mom. why don't you go out
and tell them we're ready to start?
- Okay.
All right. you two. You're up.
Get out there.
See you in a bit.
So handsome.
- So beautiful.
- Thank you.
- Thanks. Mom.
- Okay.
- All right. you ready?
- Yep.
Um...
How do you want to do this?
Should... Uh. do you
want my arm or something?
I think... maybe... like this?
Okay.
Wait. you got... Oh.
my gosh. right here.
Let me see.
- Okay.
- Ready?
- Yes.
Okay.
♪ Little airplane in the sky ♪
♪ You point up at it ♪
♪ I watch your face
As you watch it go by ♪
♪ Everything is perfect ♪
♪ Where would I be right now ♪
♪ If all my dreams
had come true? ♪
♪ Deep down I know somehow ♪
♪ I'd have never
seen your face ♪
♪ This world would
be a different place ♪
♪ Darling. there's
no way to know ♪
♪ Which way your heart will go ♪
I just want you to
be happy. Mom.
♪ Summer sun on a sandy slide ♪
♪ Silver swing set shining ♪
♪ How can life feel so alive ♪
♪ And still feel like dying? ♪
♪ Where would I be right now ♪
♪ If all my dreams
had come true? ♪
♪ Deep down I know
somehow. I'd... ♪
Testing. One. two. three.
Hey. everyone. Welcome
to my sister's wedding.
Holy shit.
♪ Which way your heart will go ♪
♪ Get into my car now ♪
♪ The sun is sinking down ♪
♪ We've got about an hour ♪
♪ Let's leave the city ♪
Sure.
♪ The monkey on my back's ♪
♪ Been going apeshit now ♪
♪ He's got his symbols out... ♪
- Who has Eddie today?
- His parents do. They live in Great Neck.
Hmm.
Wow. really? That's convenient.
Yeah. I used to do
summers out here as a kid.
You know that restaurant.
The Lobster Roll?
I do.
Well. um.
my greatest ambition as a
kid was to be a waiter there.
- You're kidding.
- No.
During the summers. they
had all these young. tan.
gorgeous waitstaff.
and I thought...
life couldn't get
any cooler than that.
- Did you ever get a job there?
- No.
But I think I might shoot
something there one day.
- You should. That would be amazing.
- Yeah. it would make a great location.
If everyone wouldn't mind
leaving the dance floor.
the next song up
is a special one
that Colin would like
to dedicate to his bride.
Oh. shit. it's
happening. Let's go.
♪ I pictured a rainbow ♪
♪ You held it in your hands ♪
♪ I had flashes ♪
♪ But you saw the plan ♪
♪ I wandered out in
the world for years ♪
♪ While you just
stayed in your room ♪
♪ I saw the crescent ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ The whole of the moon ♪
♪ Hmm. you were
there in the turnstiles ♪
♪ With the wind at your heels ♪
♪ You stretched for the stars ♪
♪ And you know how it
feels To reach too high ♪
♪ Too far ♪
♪ Too soon ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ I was grounded ♪
♪ While you filled the skies ♪
♪ I was dumbfounded by truth ♪
♪ You cut through lies ♪
♪ I saw the rain dirty valley ♪
♪ You saw Brigadoon ♪
♪ I saw the crescent ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
Mom. Come on.
No. I'm filming!
Now it's time for our
father-daughter. mother-son dance.
So. kids. find your parents
and get them out there.
It's so corny.
It's a wedding. Mom. suck it up.
♪ Maybe we'll be together ♪
♪ When the sun disappears ♪
Who's Colin dancing with?
Oh. that's his mother.
Really?
Think she just got here.
She'd missed her flight or something.
She came all the way from Ireland.
♪ You could be
my little sister ♪
I'll have to introduce myself.
♪ You could be my mother. too ♪
♪ Whoa. I'll race
you to the light ♪
♪ I'll race you to the light ♪
♪ Yeah. I'll meet
you at the corner ♪
You know what?
Think you should go
dance with your sister.
You sure?
- Yep. definitely.
- Okay.
♪ Though I'm not
feeling quite right ♪
♪ But I wanna see you still ♪
♪ Yeah. I always wanna see you ♪
♪ 'Cause you look
inside my pain ♪
♪ And you cup it
with your hands ♪
♪ And you call it by its name ♪
♪ Then you bury it between us ♪
♪ In the dirt between our feet ♪
♪ And we grow from it together ♪
♪ Like a weeping willow tree ♪
♪ Maybe we'll watch together ♪
♪ As the stars write our names ♪
♪ From a raft we've
been building ♪
♪ Out of hailstones and flames ♪
♪ And I could be
your little brother ♪
♪ Mm ♪
♪ I could be your father. too ♪
♪ Whoa. I'll race
you to the light ♪
♪ I'll race you to the light ♪
♪ Yeah. I'll meet
you at the hideout ♪
♪ Where the sticks
are lean and tall ♪
♪ Where the light
is growing darker ♪
♪ Where we don't
feel scared at all ♪
♪ 'Cause your arms Are
wrapped around me ♪
♪ With your face
against my neck ♪
♪ We know magic doesn't happen ♪
♪ Without patience and respect ♪
♪ And the halls
have all blown open ♪
♪ And the truth
is running free ♪
♪ There ain't
nothing in this world ♪
♪ More alive than you and me ♪
♪ There ain't
nothing in this world ♪
♪ More alive than you and me ♪
♪ There ain't no
one in this world ♪
♪ More in love than you and me ♪
♪ I'll race you to the light ♪
♪ I will race you to the light ♪
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Well. why aren't
you at the wedding?
Can I come in? I'm freezing.
Sure.
Cozy.
Yeah. I think so.
- Pringle?
- Yeah. I'd love one.
Thank you.
Here.
Why are you looking
at me like that?
I just wanna know what you're doing
here. not at our daughter's wedding.
I came to show you this.
- She looks happy.
- She is.
Should've joined them.
Well. I never do.
♪ You saw the plan ♪
♪ I wandered out in... ♪
Do you remember our wedding?
- Yeah. really well.
- Hmm. I don't.
- Well. I think you were pretty stoned.
- Yeah. I know. but that's not it.
That's not...
It's just. I think...
What I think is. I'm
never present anywhere.
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
I think I'm just always so...
worried about what's gonna go
wrong. and how am I gonna fix it.
and what's the story gonna be.
and how am I gonna tell it.
and who am I gonna tell it to?
- I thought that was my problem.
- I know.
But that's not
really true. is it?
I mean. look at you. you've
made one decision after another.
I haven't made any decisions.
I never make any decisions.
I just let shit happen
to me. and then I just...
feel bad about it. sad about it.
I just complain about it.
I don't think that's
necessarily true. but okay.
I didn't even plan
this wedding; you did.
- Well. you were busy.
- Yeah.
And don't think I don't
know what people would say
if they knew that I
showed up here right now.
"There's Helen.
codependent again."
What people are
we talking about?
Look. I don't know why it has to
be a pathology that I show up here.
I mean. maybe I just want
to be with you. You know?
- Okay.
- And I'm also really fucking tired
of everyone telling everyone
else what's good for them.
You know. nobody does
what's good for them.
And if they do. they
certainly don't enjoy it.
And another thing...
You have a couple that stays
married for. let's say. 50 years.
You don't think that there's an element
of codependency in that relationship?
I mean. you think these people
would stay married for half a century
because they wanted to?
That's insane.
- Helen. are you okay?
- Do you want to...?
Do you want to sit down?
No. I think I might be having a
nervous breakdown. so I just...
It's better if I stand up.
- Okay. well. at least have some more salt.
- That's a good idea.
Do you know. if you had an affair 50
years ago. we never would've broken up?
We never would have
mentioned it. really. to anybody.
- You certainly wouldn't have...
- written a fucking book about it.
And if we had mentioned it.
I would have been given
credit for standing by you.
You know. for putting our family
before my own personal feelings.
I would have been
congratulated for my character.
Fifty years ago. I would have been a
good fucking wife. and now I'm the problem.
Well. more like 60 years
ago. but I see your point.
I mean. I just... I don't even
know what's going on here.
I don't know what
I'm trying to prove.
I mean. if we both die
and you never find out
that I still love you. what.
do I win a prize or something?
Sorry. what?
I don't know. I think
maybe I am crazy.
Well. you know that's not true.
Look. you know
how I feel about you.
I don't know what you
want me to say. um...
Yes. I do think it's strange
that you're not at
Whitney's wedding right now.
And it does feel like a
familiar pattern between us
where I get exiled and
you come rescue me.
And we know how
that ends. Don't we?
But I'm not saying you've got a
pathology or anything wrong with you.
But even if we do
love each other.
doesn't mean we're
good for each other.
What does that mean...
"good for each other"?
Well. I think certain couples have
hurt each other less than we have.
I think certain couples have loved
each other less than we have. too.
True.
I mean. what's the endgame here?
We're just supposed to
get old and lose our-our...
hearing and our hair...
our memory. and then we die?
I guess so.
You know. I know the
story I'm supposed to tell
is that this all happened
for a reason and that...
I'm stronger now
because of what happened.
and so I'm better now
than I was when
we were together.
And most of the time. I do
really believe that that's true.
But some days when
I'm feeling really...
sad or really happy.
And I just think about how
we're not here for long at all.
And when we're gone.
we're gone forever.
Those are the days I
just forget to remember
that it all happened
for the best.
Will you dance with me?
On our daughter's wedding day?
- Tell me more about the wedding.
- It was very nice.
It was a little
twee. very Whitney.
- How were the vows?
- They were sweet.
What did they say?
Um. he promised
to be nice to her.
and then she promised
to be nice to him.
- Mm. that's good.
- Yeah.
That should keep them
going for the first six months.
Maybe she won't make
the same mistakes we did.
Well. maybe she'll...
- catch them quicker.
- Mm.
You know. I used to
think I could look at you
and know exactly
what you were thinking.
How wrong I was.
Well. give it a shot.
- No.
- Come on. Try again for old times' sake.
What am I thinking right now?
Well. it looks like you're
thinking you want to kiss me. but...
See? You've still got it.
- Tag. you're it.
- Oh. no!
- Yay!
- I got you.
Can I clear this away?
Yeah.
Is everything all right?
What?
You seem a little sad.
I'm always like this.
Oh. that's a good book.
I'm reading that myself.
- Yeah. it's okay.
- You don't like it?
I'm sort of loosely
connected to the author.
so I have a kind of
weird perspective on it.
Really?
What's that?
Are you this curious with
everyone who comes in here?
Well. I don't have many
customers anymore.
You're my first this week.
Look. I have a big
decision to make.
so if you don't mind.
I'd like to be alone.
Well. be brave.
What?
Make the difficult choice.
I wasn't actually
asking for your advice.
Well. I'm offering it anyway.
The universe rewards courage.
Mister. I just found out that my
mom's boyfriend murdered her
30 years ago and got away with it.
so I don't need your fucking advice.
How much do I owe you?
What did you say?
- How much do I owe you?
- No. what did...
- What did you say about your mother?
- You know what?
- Charge me anything you want.
- No. Wait.
- Oh. my God. Oh. my God.
- What the fuck?
- You have a shotgun?
- What are you doing here?
- Where did you get a shotgun?
- It's my father's.
No shit. That
must be an antique.
- Can I see it?
- EJ.
Okay. Okay. Not
the right thing to say.
How'd you find me?
- Sorry. were you trying to hide?
- I took my bracelet off.
Because we had sex last night.
I left it at a restaurant.
And I thought we kind
of had a connection.
I'm untraceable. My
own husband has no idea
- where I am right now.
- It wasn't hard.
I have a tracking device
in my car. Wait. what?
- You have a what?
- What did you just say?
I think you heard me.
Can you put the gun down?
Well. I have to admit.
I feel kind of used.
Sorry.
You didn't seem
like the type to lie.
I'm kind of a disaster
of a person. EJ.
I thought you would have
figured that out by now.
How'd it go with Ben?
Oh. it was terrific.
I signed some kind of
release when I first got there.
Didn't look at it.
And apparently. I
admitted to being mental.
What?
So when I brought
the police back.
he showed them the release
and played them a recording
of me saying I
wanted to kill him.
- What?
- And they sided with him.
Oh. my God.
Joanie. I'm so sorry.
Yeah. guess I'll just
have to finish this myself.
So. what. you're just gonna
go back and shoot him?
Looks likely.
They'll put you away for life.
It'll be worth it.
I have a better idea.
- What?
- Run away with me.
I just told you I was married.
I don't care.
Why not?
Because you
obviously don't care.
You're clearly not
happy with your husband.
If you were. you
wouldn't be here with me.
I was alone here.
You just stalked me.
My job is flying me to Vienna tomorrow
evening to speak at a conference.
Why don't you come with me?
And we can just...
keep going.
Sorry.
I have to finish this.
What good will it do to kill him? It's
not gonna bring your mother back.
That's not what this is about.
- He can't just get away with it.
- Joanie...
Hey. hey. I like you.
I really like you.
You're fucking honest.
You live your life with
your eyes still open.
And almost nobody
fucking does that anymore.
I'm so sick of trying to
fix my parents' mistakes.
We didn't fuck this
planet up. they did.
Why should we have to fix it?
Let them go. Joanie.
Let them all go.
You don't owe your
life to any of them.
Okay.
Wait. what? Really?
That speech. that speech worked?
Car's out of gas.
I figured.
I brought some with me.
Okay. let's go.
What?
I have to tell you something.
I. um...
haven't been entirely
honest with you either.
Oh. God.
Are you married. too?
No. But. um...
My full name is
Eddie James Ullah.
Does that mean anything to you?
- Should it?
- No.
No. not necessarily.
It's just that my
father was sort of...
loosely affiliated
with your mother.
What?
Alison's second
husband Noah Solloway...
his first wife was a woman
named Helen Solloway.
And after they divorced.
she met my father.
Your mother is Helen Solloway?
Uh. no.
Um. my mother's name is Sierra.
My father's name was Vik.
They had an affair
when he was with Helen.
and that's where I come from.
- Are we related?
- What? No. no. no.
- Are you sure?
- Yes. No way.
My mother is your mother's
ex-husband's ex-wife's
new partner's lover.
So we could not be less related.
Did you know I was gonna
be in the graveyard that day?
- How would I have known that?
- I dunno.
Why didn't you just
tell me who you were?
Look. it's like six degrees of
separation. It's not a big deal.
Well. then. why did you hide it?
- Well. I wasn't trying to hide it.
- Just stop the car.
- Come on.
- Please stop the car.
Joanie. you're overreacting.
Nothing has changed.
I'm still the same person I
was 30 seconds ago in that car.
You lied to me.
I didn't lie. I just didn't
tell you the whole story.
And you didn't tell
me the whole story.
You've been married this
whole time. I mean. come on.
I thought we
understood each other.
What is it you thought
you understood?
That we're not sheep.
That we both play
by different rules.
This is stupid. I can't
go to Vienna with you.
- Why not?
- We were just fucking. EJ.
that's all it was.
Why are you trying to
turn it into something else?
Are you really so desperate
for someone to love?
I guess I am.
What are you even doing here? Why
are you so obsessed with my family?
Is it some sort of
transitive whore property?
What?
Your mother and my mother
both fucked over the same woman.
My mother and
Helen were friends.
Right.
Helen was like a
second mother to me.
There-there is such
a thing as forgiveness.
I realize that that's completely
out of your frame of reference.
but there are certain people
who are actually capable of it.
And believe it or not. this place
was part of my childhood. too.
My mother and I came out here
and stayed with Helen's
parents when I was young.
I worked construction
here when I was in college.
I even helped restore the
Lobster Roll when Noah bought it.
- so you're not the only person...
- Wait. what?
Who this town
means something to.
And. yeah. yeah. I don't know.
Maybe I was attracted to you
because we shared a certain history.
Because I thought you might
be able to understand my pain.
and I might be able
to understand yours.
Is that such a crime?
- No.
- And I wanted to tell you.
I was going to. but...
you were just always
dealing with so much trauma.
you didn't really let me
get a word in edgewise.
You're right.
So...
Okay.
I meant everything
I said back there.
So will you please get
back in the car now?
- Please.
- EJ. this isn't right.
We're just gonna wind
up hating each other.
No. I won't.
Yes. you will.
Maybe not today. maybe not tomorrow.
but soon and for the rest of your life.
- So you have seen a movie.
- It was my mother's favorite film.
Why am I not surprised?
So. what. you're just gonna
go back to your husband?
No. I don't think so.
So where the hell will you go?
I don't know.
Your mother and Helen
were really friends?
Good friends.
So it's possible.
What's possible?
To do things differently.
Can I at least give
you a lift somewhere?
I'd like to walk.
Hello again.
Hey. Noah.
Your father knew.
Knew what?
He always said Ben
must have killed her.
'Cause she would never
have chosen to leave you.
My dad said that?
That surprises you?
Um. a little. actually.
He spent his entire
life saying the opposite.
Well. what did he tell you?
That she was crazy.
That he tried to save
her and he couldn't.
And that we were
better off without her.
Oh. wow. That breaks my heart.
You have to understand.
Joanie. your father was...
carrying a tremendous
amount of pain.
Sounds like you cared about him.
Well. "cared" is a
strong word. I mean...
No. I respected Cole.
I think. under the circumstances.
that's the most one could expect.
How long have you
been back in Montauk?
I moved back here after my
oldest daughter's wedding.
which was 30 years ago now.
- That's when we left.
- I know.
And the day Cole came back into
town. he walked through that door and...
I think both of us nearly
had a heart attack.
But time has a habit of making these.
these big things seem small somehow.
It's so good to see you. Joanie.
It really is so good to see you.
Tell me about your life.
What-what do you. uh...
What do you do?
I'm a coastal engineer.
I'm trying to save the
world from drowning.
Really?
- Do you have any children?
- Two.
Boys or girls?
Daughters.
Thea and Madeline.
That's wonderful. Joanie.
But...
I can only love them
when I'm away from them.
When I'm away from
them. I miss them terribly.
But when I'm
with them. I can't...
I can't even hold them
and I don't know why.
I have this friend
who's a. uh...
He's an epigeneticist.
And he has a theory about
trauma being passed down.
What's his name?
Uh. Eddie. He's like a. he's
kind of like a. a nephew of mine.
Fascinating.
Go on.
Well. he says that trauma can be
passed from one generation to another.
That it actually
changes the DNA.
And he says there
are studies where. uh...
where there are rats who...
who are shocked every time
they. uh. smell cherry blossom.
And then they breed the rats
and their babies are
afraid of cherry blossom.
Wow. Amazing.
Anyway. my point is that your
parents went through a lot of trauma.
They... I mean.
they lost a child.
So it would make sense that
you. too. were afraid of loss.
And maybe even
a bit paralyzed by it.
Yeah. no. I know a
bit about that theory.
There's a question
about whether the children
of trauma survivors also
inherit their resilience.
Oh. I didn't know that.
That's wonderful.
So maybe you inherited
her resilience as well.
You mean his resilience.
No. no. no. I mean hers.
No. No offense to Cole.
but he-he never changed.
I mean. your mother always said that
Cole used to run away from his problems.
But Alison. she was
always working on herself.
She was a work in
progress and she knew it.
She was so present.
Feeling everything
so deeply and...
She made herself stay
awake and was so disappointed
when other people seem
so asleep in their lives.
Noah. when I was four years old.
she dumped me on Cole and
Luisa's doorstep and took off.
To get help.
And then. six months later. she came
back and she fought your father in court.
No. she didn't.
You-you don't know this?
I thought they just
let her have me back
because they felt sorry for her.
No. Joanie. no. no.
Cole and Luisa tried
to keep you from her.
She had to humiliate herself.
It was devastating. You...
They never told you this?
Oh. Jesus Christ.
Joanie. it's very
important you know this:
you were her whole life.
Everything she
did. she did for you.
She tried to get help so that
she could be there for you.
She was trying to give you
a better life than she had.
and she was succeeding.
You know. she's...
she's one of the only people I've
ever met in my whole life who...
who actually managed to change.
When I met her. she
was this shell of a person.
and by the time she
died. she had a job
helping other people
heal from the same
trauma that she had and...
Do you know how
difficult that is?
How few people
actually achieve that?
She was still
dating married men.
Oh. she didn't know he was married.
What-what happened with Ben. that...
that was not her fault.
Well. what good did it do her?
All those changes?
- He killed her anyway.
- Joanie.
if the lesson you're taking away
from your mother's death is not to try.
then that's a great.
great tragedy.
Change is hard.
It takes a long time.
Sometimes more than a lifetime.
What the fuck does that mean?
Sometimes we can
only start journeys
that our children
have to finish for us.
It's too late to
hear those things.
- It's not too late.
- Yes. it is.
I've already screwed it all up.
I can't go off with someone new.
And I can't go home.
So. instead. I'm fucking
stuck here in some sort of...
seafood purgatory...
talking to you.
Why can't you go home?
Why don't you tell me. Noah?
You seem to know a lot. Why...
Why can't I go home?
Well. maybe 'cause it's hard.
Going home is hard.
Staying with someone.
loving them no matter what.
that's hard.
It's so easy to...
go find someone new.
reinvent yourself in their eyes.
and try once more
to live without flaw.
but sooner or later you realize
the only thing you're
running from is death.
It's not another
person at all. it's...
it's death. and...
when that finally
occurs to you. you...
you yearn more than anything
for someone who really knows you.
Who really knows
every inch of you.
And will remember
you when you're gone.
What are you trying to say?
What I'm trying
to say is that...
if... if trauma and pain
can echo through
generations. then so can love.
If abandonment can
ripple across time.
then so can presence.
I mean. you-you've suffered
a lot of loss in your life. Joanie.
but you've also
had a lot of love.
And you may not be
able to save the Earth.
But you can be
there for your children.
No matter what happens.
♪ Same clothes the last time ♪
♪ You disappointed me ♪
♪ I've got those same
clothes The last time ♪
♪ You disappointed me ♪
Don't tell anyone.
but I miss Dad.
Yeah.
Where do you
think he is tonight?
He's here.
- What do you mean? He's here?
- No. no. He's in Montauk. I think.
At least he was this morning.
- Why?
- We rehearsed your flash mob.
Martin.
I don't think you were
supposed to know that.
How could you not tell
me he was in Montauk?
He told us not to.
He thought it would upset you.
But he had to be here. He
basically planned the entire wedding.
I thought Mom took over
the wedding planning.
She told me she would.
No. I think maybe you told
her that she was going to.
Look. it was a group
effort. and we all pitched in.
Yeah. I don't know why you're so upset.
I think it came together really well.
What. so he's just
somewhere by himself right now
while we're all
enjoying the party?
Well. you said you
didn't want him here.
Where the fuck is
he even staying?
At the Memory Motel.
Of course you know that. Stacey.
You're such a fucking daddy's girl.
Hey. She's 12.
Look. I just think
it's really awful
that none of you told me
that he was coming here.
- As if I'm the crazy one. like...
- We don't think you're crazy. Whit.
We just wanted you to have a
good day. All of us. him included.
How could you let him come here?
I thought you understood.
You of all people.
I do understand.
Your father's made some real mistakes
and you've had to bear the brunt of them.
But he does love you. Whit.
And he wanted
to do this for you.
Even if he couldn't
be here to see it.
Yeah. He's got you all fooled.
He bought my
mother a plane ticket.
He didn't have to do that.
He did?
- Fuck.
- Excuse me.
Could I get a dance
with the bride?
Of course. Grandpa.
What's wrong. kiddo?
You're awfully perceptive
for someone with dementia.
Well. this is a good day.
So tell me. what's on your mind?
It's your wedding day.
You don't look happy.
Sometimes I don't
know what to think.
About what?
If people hurt you very badly.
do you have to forgive them?
No.
But sometimes it hurts you more
than it hurts them to hold a grudge.
What's it all for. then?
If people can act however
they want and get forgiven.
then what is the point of trying
to be good in the first place?
I think it's about what
kind of life you want to live.
You will have plenty of
opportunities to be angry in your life.
You have less chance
to love people. though.
Really love them.
So you just...
you want to be careful how many
of those opportunities you squander.
I think young people believe
they'll just keep coming.
but they don't.
Grandpa. can you
help me with something?
Anything for you.
You really think
he's gonna do it?
- He said he would.
- What if he forgets?
He was totally
lucid a moment ago.
It seems really dangerous.
He has Alzheimer's.
Do you have a better way
to sneak out of this wedding?
We can just walk out.
She can't. you
idiot. She's the bride.
Oh. my God. here he
comes. Okay. okay. Um...
Do we know the plan? Cake knife?
- Check.
- Platter?
- Yeah. Check.
- Okay.
Whoa!
Oh. my God. Bruce!
Bruce!
- No! Okay. Go. go. go. go.
- Okay.
Go find your sister.
Let's go. let's go. let's go.
I love you so much.
♪ I might be old. but
I'm someone new ♪
♪ She said... ♪
I found champagne!
I got the coats!
♪ ...I could cry always ♪
♪ In the night. lay
your tired arms ♪
♪ She will have her way ♪
- Shh.
- Are we sure about this?
♪ ... believe her ♪
Come on.
♪ She's the life I've
been frightened of ♪
Go. go. go.
♪ Deathly silence And
especially the dark ♪
♪ Feels like I am heavy ♪
♪ And my spirit has died... ♪
- Everyone stop! Back up!
- Whoa.
- Back up!
- Jesus Christ.
- What is it?
- What is going on?
- Mom is in there.
- So?
Oh. my God.
- Nice.
- This is so difficult.
- What do we do?
- I don't know. Whit.
♪ Do. do. do. do. do. do ♪
♪ Do. do. do ♪
♪ Do. do. do. ah-ah ♪
♪ Ah. ah ♪
♪ Ah ♪
♪ Still no end in sight ♪
♪ Though I travel far and wide ♪
♪ A dying man is doing time ♪
♪ Thinker. soldier terrified ♪
♪ She will have her way ♪
♪ Somehow I will still ♪
♪ Believe her ♪
♪ She will have her way ♪
♪ One day I will ♪
♪ Come ♪
♪ Back ♪
♪ Do. do. do ♪
♪ Ah-ah-ah-ah ♪
♪ Hey ♪
♪ She will have her way ♪
♪ When the time has gone away ♪
♪ Yeah. she will have her way ♪
♪ She will have her way ♪
Now...
where were we?
Ah.
Ah. yeah.
Ah. yes.
Chapter three.
"My parents...
were an odd couple."
"Him tall. patient but lazy."
"Her small. impatient
and assiduous."
Ah. yeah.
Assiduous is right.
You know this doesn't
mean anything. right?
- I do.
- Okay.
You know. tomorrow we're gonna wake
up and pretend this never happened. right?
Because you know we're
both too old to change. right?
I do.
Hey. you know
you're crying. right?
I do.
You know I love you?
You want to try this again?
I do.
I have to go. love.
I'll be back tomorrow.
Ooh.
Mom's home!
Mom's home?
- Mom's home! Mom's home!
- Mom's home!
I got to go talk to
your dad. okay?
Paul. I'm so sorry.
- I love you.
♪ I pictured a rainbow ♪
♪ You held it in your hands ♪
♪ I had flashes ♪
♪ But you saw the plan ♪
♪ I wandered out in
the world for years ♪
♪ While you just
stayed in your room ♪
♪ I saw the crescent ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ You were there
in the turnstiles ♪
♪ With the wind at your heels ♪
♪ You stretched for the stars ♪
♪ And you know how it
feels To reach too high ♪
♪ Too far ♪
♪ Too soon ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ I was grounded ♪
♪ While you filled the skies ♪
♪ I was dumbfounded by truth ♪
♪ You cut through lies ♪
♪ I saw the rain dirty valley ♪
♪ You saw Brigadoon ♪
♪ I saw the crescent ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ I spoke about wings ♪
♪ You just flew ♪
♪ I wondered. I
guessed and I tried ♪
♪ You just knew ♪
♪ I sighed ♪
♪ But you swooned ♪
♪ I saw the crescent ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ The whole of the moon ♪
♪ With a torch in your pocket ♪
♪ And the wind at your heels ♪
♪ You climbed on the ladder ♪
♪ And you know how it
feels To get too high ♪
♪ Too far ♪
♪ Too soon ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ The whole of the moon ♪
♪ Hey. yeah ♪
♪ Unicorns and cannonballs ♪
♪ Palaces and piers ♪
♪ Trumpets. towers
and tenements ♪
♪ Wide oceans full of tears ♪
♪ Flags. rags. ferryboats ♪
♪ Scimitars and scarves ♪
♪ Every precious
dream and vision ♪
♪ Underneath the stars ♪
♪ Yes. you climbed
on the ladder ♪
♪ With the wind in your sails ♪
♪ You came like a comet ♪
♪ Blazing your trail ♪
♪ Too high ♪
♪ Too far ♪
♪ Too soon ♪
♪ You saw the
whole of the moon ♪
♪ The whole of the moon ♪
♪ You saw the whole... ♪